-[scattered cheers]
-[girl] Boo! Too easy! Too easy!
[Mr. Phillips] Spell "amorous."
Amorous.
A-M-O-R... U--
[Mr. Phillips groans] Wrong.
-[class erupts]
-Sit down.
Spell "gorgeous."
G-O-R-G-I--
Ugh! Sit down, you butcher of beauty.
"Ostracize"?
O-S-T-R-A-C-I-Z-E.
[Mr. Phillips]
That would seem to be correct.
[boys cheering]
"Haughty."
H-A-U-G-H-T-Y.
"Callous."
C-A-L-L-O-U-S.
[class shouting]
"Penitent."
P-E-N-I-T-E-N-T.
[girls cheering, applauding]
"Intentions."
I-N-T-E-N-T-I-O-N-S.
[boys cheering]
[pupils banging fists on desks]
"Persevere."
P-E-R-S-E-V-E-R-E.
[girls clapping, cheering]
"Engagement."
E-N-G-A-G-M...
That is incorrect.
The... spelling, not the sentiment.
[girls cheering]
Anne, you won!
Congratulations, Anne.
I should have added the "E."
Anne, are you feeling all right?
♪ First thing we'd climb a tree ♪
♪ And maybe then we'd talk ♪
♪ Or sit silently ♪
♪ And listen to our thoughts ♪
♪ With illusions of someday ♪
♪ Casting a golden light ♪
♪ No dress rehearsal ♪
♪ This is our life ♪
♪ You are ahead by a century ♪
-♪ This is our life ♪
-♪ You are ahead by a century ♪
[gasps]
[breathes heavily, gasps]
[panting]
[water bubbling]
[pants]
[sniffles]
[Marilla] Anne?
I'm sorry! I'm so sorry I disturbed you.
I'm so very sorry
you bet on the wrong horse.
Whatever do you mean?
[gasps] I never got to wear puff sleeves.
What are you doing there?
If you want to send me to the hospital
for the remainder of my days,
I will completely understand!
-[sobs]
-You're not dying.
Will you please plant some pink roses
on my grave?
Anne, you are not dying!
You're in your womanly flowering time,
and it's perfectly normal.
But I'm not ready to be a woman!
Well, it's God's plan,
and that's the way of it.
[gasps]
Oh, there's been some kind of mistake.
There is no way God would think
it's time for me to be a woman!
-Now, now, let's get you sorted out.
-[sobs]
You'll need some cotton cloths
to pin to your undergarments.
Oh, this can't be happening.
And after, they'll need to be washed
in cold water first and then hot.
[sighs]
Do you have to deal with this, too?
I did. For many years.
Years?
Your cycle is a few days every month.
Every month? But why?
Why is this happening now?
-Everything was fine for once!
-Matthew, out!
Anne, what's wrong?
[sobs] Everything!
[shouts] I said out!
I, uh... Yes. Um...
Barn.
-[sobs] This is a waking nightmare.
-[door opens]
-Anne, calm yourself.
-[door closes]
My word, you're hysterical.
I hate this.
I hate this. I hate this! [sniffles]
[sobs]
-There now.
-[muffled crying]
-Perhaps stay home from school today.
-What?
No. No, no, no.
I-I can't lose time, Marilla.
-There's no reason--
-I need to keep up my academic record!
I have just caught up with Gil...
with the rest of the class!
Whatever you want, Anne.
Whatever you want.
[sobs, groans]
[man] Thank you.
[man coughing]
Mrs. Kincannon will be here shortly.
[man] I'm fine. You go on to school, son.
-And I'll be home straight after school.
-All right. Thank you, son.
[man coughing]
[inhales, coughs]
-Well, good morning, Mrs. Kincannon.
-Gilbert, you're late for school.
-I promise I'll get your wages next week.
-No worries. I know where you live.
Oh, it was like something
out of Shakespeare.
-Yet she insisted on going to school?
-Mercifully, yes.
But poor Matthew had fled the house
well before then.
You may not see him for a week.
If you see a suspicious character foraging
in your garden,
please feed him some supper.
[Rachel chuckles]
Oh, God.
I don't miss it.
I'll say it out loud:
I'd rather be pregnant than menstruating.
That explains all the children.
[both laughing]
[girls giggling]
[Josie] Shh! Not so loud.
I got mine three months ago,
and I feel extremely mature.
-You seem mature.
-You do.
I think the boys
take me more seriously, too.
But they can't tell. Can they tell?
That would be awful.
[Josie] Not tell, per se,
but I'm not a little girl anymore,
and I believe that's noticeable.
My bosoms are growing.
Yet another reason
why this is inexplicable.
-I got mine last year.
-Me, too.
Really?
My father has started
opening the door for me. It's sweet.
-I can't wait until I can wear my hair up.
-[chuckles]
[sniffling]
-Ruby, what's wrong?
-I'm not a woman. Why don't I have it?
Trust me, if I could give you mine,
I would. This is so inconvenient!
-Hush, Anne!
-Keep your voice down!
No one's supposed to know.
A woman's cycle is a shameful thing.
[Anne] Why?
It's unmentionable, that's why.
-That's not a reason.
-Why don't you ever understand anything?
Marilla says it's God's plan,
so doesn't that make it good?
I mean, we can make a whole person.
Where's the shame in that?
Am I the only one
who thinks she's out of her mind?
It's a secret, Anne.
That's just the way it is.
Do boys have to contend
with anything like this?
[Diana] Boys have their own problems.
[muffled grunting]
Why are they doing that?
There's a question for the ages.
When I get mine, I stay home from school,
because I don't want to have an accident.
Accident?
There was a girl a few years ago who
bled through right the back of her dress.
Oh, I would die of mortification.
The teacher called her up to
the blackboard, and everybody saw.
[Tillie] I would just die.
Which districts comprise the Prairies?
Gilbert?
Um...
The districts of Athabasca,
Alberta, Saskatchewan and Assiniboia.
-[Mr. Phillips] That is a clever student.
-[appreciative murmurs]
Anne, which provinces comprise
the Atlantic Maritimes?
[sighs]
[exhales]
-I'm sorry. What was the question?
-[Mr. Phillips] Could you not hear me?
[shouts] Was I not speaking loudly enough?
I'm sorry. I just...
-[shouts] The Atlantic Maritimes!
-[class chuckling, whispering]
Sometime today.
Worst day ever!
Nice boys never say people eat insects.
-I beg your pardon?
-It's a mnemonic device.
It helps you remember things, right?
That's, uh, the Maritimes.
New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, PEI.
"Nice boys--"
Diana, could you please tell
Gilbert Blythe that I don't need his help?
Why don't you just tell me yourself?
I'm right here.
I suppose I just did.
Mnemonics is spelled with "M."
Not that you need my help or anything.
Have a good weekend. [chuckles]
You too.
Sorry.
[door opens, closes]
[whirring]
[snipping]
Afternoon, Anne.
Yes, I'm aware that it's the afternoon.
I beg your pardon?
Why doesn't anyone say what they mean?
How about, "Hello.
Still having the world's lousiest day?"
"Why, yes, thank you, I am!"
I'll thank you to mind your manners.
What does that even mean?
Did you talk things over with Diana?
Well, I talk to Diana every day,
so obviously I did!
Ugh!
[sputters, sighs]
[footsteps pounding staircase]
[Marilla] At least finish your milk, Anne.
[sighs] Nothing appeals to me, Marilla.
I don't feel very well.
Since it's Saturday, would it be all right
if I go back to bed for a little while?
Yes, that's fine.
I'll be leaving for Rachel's soon.
Growing up is certainly a trial by fire.
Well, since you are indeed growing up...
if you would like to invite Diana
for tea today, you may.
Tea? With Diana as my guest?
Only if you're up to it.
[exhales] Oh, Marilla, you are able
to imagine things after all!
Or else you'd never have understood
how I've longed for this very thing.
A grown-up tea is one
of my highest ideals of earthly bliss!
[gasps] Oh.
-But I have nothing to wear!
-Oh, you have two perfectly good dresses.
But they won't do for tea
without puff sleeves! Matthew, tell her!
She's been dreaming of those
since the day we met.
And since well before. Could you add
puff sleeves to my gray dress?
I've never heard such foolishness.
But it wouldn't take too long.
Please, Marilla, please!
I am the only girl without them!
Do you want tea today or not?
[Anne] I do.
I do. I'm sorry. I'll try to stop longing
for things I can never have.
I promise I'll try harder.
You can open this little yellow crock
of cherry preserves,
and you can cut some fruitcake
and have some of the cookies and snaps.
[Anne] Oh, I can just imagine
pouring out the tea,
and asking Diana if she takes sugar.
I know she doesn't, of course, but...
I'll ask her, just as if I didn't know.
-May we sit in the parlor?
-You may.
And you may have some
of the raspberry cordial as well.
Oh, thank you!
I must get dressed,
and run and ask Diana!
It might turn out
that I like being a grown-up after all.
Don't overexert yourself.
[exhales]
-Oh, Matthew!
-Oh, there, uh, seemed to be a-a-a draft.
Hmm? I'm having Diana to tea! [chuckles]
[hums]
♪ I'm having Diana to tea, to tea!
I'm having Diana to tea! ♪
Ah!
I'll be gone most of the day.
-What would you like me to do?
-Whatever needs doing.
You let Miss Cuthbert know...
I've gone to Carmody.
-Head out to the gate now.
-Yes, sir.
[horse groans, whinnies]
[exhales]
Don't these just look scrumptious?
Would you care for some sugar? I'm ever
so delighted that you could attend.
Must be Saturday.
[exhales]
Nice to have you here, son.
[sighs]
Will you read my favorite?
[Gilbert] "Afoot and light-hearted,
I take to the open road.
Healthy, free, the world before me.
The long brown path before me
leading wherever I choose."
[rings]
[indistinct conversation]
Good day, sir. May I assist you?
No.
No, uh, no. Uh, well, I...
Not now.
[door opens, bell rings]
[breathes heavily]
Mr. Cuthbert, isn't it? Oh!
-Yes.
-We haven't seen you in a while.
What can we get for you today?
We've got a special price on winter boots.
Big selection. Come in. Come in.
I, uh...
The, um...
[stammers] Well, uh... Well...
Well, now, it's not...
[Anne] Won't you please come in?
May I take your hat and coat?
Why, thank you.
-I trust your family is well?
-Quite well, thank you kindly.
[exhales]
Your table is exquisite!
How nice of you to say.
Won't you please sit down whilst I set
the tea to steep and fetch the cordial?
There are so many responsibilities
when one is hosting company.
Raspberry cordial, where are you?
Mmm.
Hmm.
[horse neighs]
[bell rings]
[door closes]
You're back. Surely there's something
I can help you with?
Yes.
I... [smacks lips]
-Would you like to look at dress styles?
-I, uh... I...
We have ever so many to choose from.
We make all the latest fashions,
just as if they're straight from Paris.
[Matthew] I-I-I...
It's...
[woman]
Matthew Cuthbert, as I live and breathe.
[Matthew] Uh, Jeannie?
[Diana] And we very much hope
it won't be a harsh winter this year.
Winter can indeed be savage.
Please, allow me.
You're too kind.
I love bright-red drinks, don't you?
They taste twice as good
as any other color.
Je vous remercie de vos belles manières.
That's French!
You speak French?
Oui. Je parle français couramment.
Could there be anything more perfect
than you speaking a romance language?
My two favorite things together.
-[glasses clink]
-[Anne chuckles]
Mother plans to send me
to finishing school in France.
Really? Will you take me with you?
You have to take me!
Si vous m'en versez un peu plus.
Uh... Oui?
[both chuckling]
This cordial seems
to be a different cordial
from the cordial we toasted with
when I became a Cuthbert,
but I believe I like it better.
I could drink this
for the rest of my life. [chuckles]
[bangs fist on table]
I'm gonna make a proclamation!
[laughs]
I have decided
that I love being a woman.
-[Diana chuckles]
There is so much to look forward to
when we are even older.
Bosoms!
[both guffawing]
We get to wear corsets.
Because we'll have bosoms!
Isn't it wonderful
how we agree on everything?
Isn't it wonderful to be so grown-up?
Mm.
-Oh, no.
-Hmm?
[softly] I forgot the tea.
-[both laughing]
-[Jeannie] You haven't told me her name.
It's Anne, with an "E."
Lovely.
What does she look like?
Uh, well, her hair is red,
and she doesn't care for it,
but, I mean,
I think it's just... it's fine.
Does she have a favorite color?
Oh, um...
I-I couldn't say that, uh, for certain.
But she loves trees and flowers and such.
She's got a lot of romantic notions...
about life.
Oh, so maybe something
with a little flounce. Ruffles perhaps.
And she's got a longing
for a certain type of sleeve.
With, um... [clicks tongue]
-With air. It's on the sides.
-Puff sleeves?
Oh.
De rigueur.
Oh, and, uh... Sorry.
-I brought this.
-Oh.
Sorry. That's...
That's for the... the boots. Wait.
So this is her size.
With a little room for growing.
I can see why she's longing
for the latest fashion.
Marilla was always
a very practical person.
I'll use this as a pattern for the size,
but everything else will be au courant.
Vivienne?
Please take down these measurements.
Thank you, dear.
I'm not worried about the cost.
Just as long as she likes it.
This dress will be her dream come true.
And I'll give you the old-friend discount.
That's, um...
That's very kind of you, Jeannie.
Matthew... would you like to stay for tea?
-It'll be a few minutes to measure.
-Oh, I-I don't know.
I live right upstairs,
just above the shop.
I'd hate to see you ride all that way back
to Avonlea without fortification.
All right then. Much obliged.
[both chuckling]
Ready?
One.
[both] Two, three!
Uh, she's a real bright little thing,
and she talks a mile a minute.
Always something interesting to say.
So you barely have to say a word.
Must be heaven.
[both chuckling]
But you make yourself known.
You once left a little something
on my desk at school.
Did I?
You don't remember?
[children laughing]
[boy] No, no.
-[chuckling]
-I dropped it.
[girl] Jeannie, will you teach me how
to do that cross-stitch after school?
It's called a feather-stitch,
and of course I will.
[boy 1] This is why they call me the man.
[boy 2] Give me...
How many marbles do you guys have?
-[boy 3] One, two, three...
-[boy 1] You don't count them.
[boy 3] ...four, five, six, seven...
[children's voices echoing]
Hmm.
Anyone else would have
made a show of giving it to me.
You knew I collected buttons.
I told you
when you walked me home that time.
[exhales]
It wasn't long after...
that you left school.
I was worried about you.
We were all so sorry
when your brother passed away.
[breath catches]
Um...
Yeah. I best be on my way.
Of course.
Uh...
Anne... Anne's dress should be ready
in about a week.
Very kind of you, Jeannie.
It was, uh...
It was good to see you.
I-I look forward to seeing you, then.
[Matthew grunts]
[exhales]
[horse nickers]
[exhales] This will feed a small army.
So this should just about be enough
for my extended family.
However did you manage
to have ten children?
You were expecting
for at least two decades.
-Don't remind me.
-[door opens]
-Oh, hello, dear.
-Hello.
I hope you're not begging tea.
No, no. I was just, uh--
'Cause we're up to our britches,
aren't we, Marilla?
Would you like a little lick?
Ooh. I could fancy that, yes.
Mmm. Mmm.
[Rachel chuckles]
-Off you go.
-Mm.
-Fend for yourself.
-[hums]
At this point, it's all about
managing expectations. Hmm.
You know, I could do with a spot of tea,
now that it's come up. You?
Please. I need a little bracing.
How do you suppose Anne is faring
with her grown-up ladies' tea?
Oh, I'm sure it's a very dignified affair.
[Rachel chuckles]
Jerry, hurry and hitch up the buggy!
Or I shall be late for the ball!
[chuckles]
Jerry, fetch me some rose water
before I have a fainting spell.
[both cackling]
Whoo! Whoo! Whoo!
Oh!
[both laughing]
-♪ Beautiful dreamer, wake unto me ♪
-♪ Dream! ♪
♪ Starlight and dewdrops
Are waiting for thee ♪
♪ Sounds of the rude world ♪
♪ Heard in the day ♪
♪ Lulled by the moonlight
Have all passed away... ♪
[both laughing]
Mother!
[Anne gasps]
[door closes]
As you can see,
this is a disgraceful scene.
My word, Anne.
You certainly have a genius
for getting into trouble.
I didn't even know I had
any currant wine left in the house.
-I can't imagine why you had any.
-It was for medicinal purposes.
But when the minister disapproved,
I threw the remainder away long ago.
Or so I thought.
Your... charge... is a bad influence
on my daughter.
Anne made an honest mistake.
I'm to blame.
This is the last time my Diana
will ever set foot in your house.
Please, Mrs. Barry.
I didn't mean to set Diana drunk.
You are not a fit little girl
for Diana to associate with.
But it wasn't on purpose!
[Mrs. Barry] Moreover... the girls
are not to sit together at school.
They are not to fraternize
in any manner at any time.
[Marilla] I don't disagree
that the girls should be punished
for all that has transpired.
Might I suggest a duration of two weeks?
I must preserve my Diana
from the contamination
of further intimacy with such a child.
My judgment is final!
-[Anne] Please, Mrs. Barry.
-Come on, Diana. Diana, come along!
[sobs] Please, Mother! Please!
[Mrs. Barry] Out!
[door opens]
-[sobs]
-[door closes]
[sobs]
[fire crackles]
[owl hooting]
[sighs] It's been a trying day.
[sighs]
What on earth possessed you
to buy all those boots?
[grunts]
It was a frivolous expense.
They'll have to go back.
Do you ever think...
about Michael?
Yes.
So much would have been different.
-If he hadn't--
-Yes.
Good night.
Poor little soul.
[wind whistling]
Not going to school today?
I feel like I should...
I should stay close.
[indistinct conversations]
You are not to fraternize,
or exert undue influence.
Ruby, switch places with Anne.
[pupils gasping]
[indistinct chatter]
Will your mother never relent?
I've cried and cried, and told her over
and over again that it wasn't your fault.
It isn't any use.
So this is an eternal farewell.
Then we must speak the most
pathetic language that we can think of.
With "thees" and "thous"?
That way we will never forget the pathos
of this moment.
[exhales] Diana...
wilt thou promise faithfully...
never to forget me,
the friend of your youth?
I'll never have another bosom friend.
I don't want to.
I could never love anyone
as I love you, Anne. Thou.
Wait. You love me?
Of course I do. Why don't you know that?
Well, I thought you liked me, of course,
but I never hoped you loved me.
I love you devotedly, Anne.
Then I will always love thee, Diana.
In the years to come, your memory will
shine like a star over my lonely life.
[both breathing shakily]
Let us offer each other locks
of our hair...
to treasure evermore. [sniffles]
[sobs]
[both sniffling]
I bestow upon thou this symbol
of my enduring love.
Fare thee well,
dearest Anne of Green Gables.
Henceforth, we must be strangers
living side by side.
[both sobbing]
[bell ringing]
[shouting, laughing]
[Mr. Phillips snaps fingers] Anne.
Take these lessons to Gilbert Blythe.
He'll be missing class for a time, and
I don't want him falling too far behind.
He's my best student.
-Why is he missing class?
-That is none of your concern.
Now, hurry along.
Scat!
[sighs]
[exhales]
Why does everything happen to me?
[sighs]
Gilbert?
Gilbert Blythe!
[sighs] Life is so unfair.
[sighs]
Finally.
[pants]
Sorry to make you wait.
Gilbert...
is out back chopping wood.
What wonderful red hair.
You're the Cuthberts' new charge,
aren't you?
-Yes.
-I've heard nice things about you.
[sighs] And how is Marilla?
Still feisty, I hope?
Dad, what are you doing?
-You shouldn't be walking.
-My son worries too much.
It seems this young lady
has urgent business with you.
I'll go inside now.
-I'll fetch your chair.
-No, I-I-I'll go on my own.
Thank you, son.
It was nice to meet you.
Give my kind regards to Marilla.
I will. Of course, Mr. Blythe.
Those for me?
[nervous chuckle]
Well, uh...
It's kind of you to bring them by.
Mr. Phillips doesn't want you
falling behind.
I don't, either.
If you're gonna beat me in class,
I want you to do it fair and square.
Yes. Exactly.
Um...
Thank you.
I'll see you.
[Anne] Hmm.
There. Finished. [chuckles]
That was fast.
Only took you a week.
I wanted to make it quickly,
so Diana doesn't forget me.
I'm happy to report that my flowering time
is finally over.
I feel much older and wiser than before.
And I won't be emotional next time.
I have come to realize that
there are far bigger worries in the world.
[chuckles]
So, buy the dress
after you return the boots,
but I'm... I'm hoping this will be enough.
Oh, and I must have picked this up
by mistake. At the dress shop.
Please, just...
You return that to Miss Jeannie.
[clicks tongue]
I hope Mr. Cuthbert's well.
Yes, madam. He's quite well.
I'm glad. Well, please tell him
I'm sorry not to have seen him today.
Yes, madam.
Oh.
I almost forgot.
Mr. Cuthbert said I'm to give you this.
Au revoir.
[door opens, bell rings]
Oh. Hello, Matthew.
[chuckles nervously]
[exhales]
[chuckles]
[gasps]
Thank you!
[exhales]
[chuckles]
You've gone
and spoiled the child, Matthew.
She's not a child anymore.
[chuckles]
Can we be a little bit late to church,
so everyone can see me walking in?
Matthew Cuthbert, you're missing a button
from your best Sunday shirt.
Nah, I'm fine... like this, Marilla.
[inhales]
Well... let's go along then.
[clears throat]
If you please... Miss.
Mm.
[exhales]
[Anne chuckles]
Walk on.
[clicks tongue]
[horse nickers]
[Anne chuckles]